_Needwood!_ if e’er my early voice
           Hath taught thy echoes to rejoice;
           If e’er my hounds in opening cry
           Have fill’d thy banks with ecstacy;
           If e’er array’d in cheerful green
           Our train hath deck’d thy wintry scene;
           Ere yet thy wood-wild walks I leave,
           My tributary verse receive:
           With thy own wreath my brows adorn,
           And to thy praises tune my horn!

             What green-rob’d Nymph, all loose her hair,
           With buskin’d leg, and bosom bare,
           Steps lightly down the turfy glades,
           And beckons tow’rd yon opening shades?—
           No harlot-form, dissembling guile
           With wanton air and painted smile,
           Lures to enchanted halls or bowers,
           Where festive Vice consumes his hours.
           Her mild and modest looks dispense
           The simple charm of innocence:
           And a sweet wildness in her eye
           Sparkles with young sincerity.—
           Lead on, fair guide, ere wakes the dawn,
           With thee I’ll climb the steepy lawn,
           With thee the leafy labyrinths trace,
           Where dwells the Genius of the place.—
           His large limbs press a prim-rose bed,
           A moss-grown root sustains his head,
           And, list’ning to a Druid’s rhimes,
           He bends his eye on distant times:
           While troops of sylvan Vassals meet
           To cast their garlands at his feet,
           And pipe and frisk in rings about,
           Or parly with the Hunter’s shout.
           And now a fragrant show’r he throws
           Of blossoms from his curled brows,
           And rising waves his oaken wand,
           And bids yon magic scenes expand!—

             First blush the hills with orient light,
           And pierce the sable veil of night,
           Green bends the waving shade above,
           And glist’ring dew-drops gem the grove:
           Next shine the shelving lawns around,
           Bright threads of silver net the ground;
           And down, the entangled brakes among,
           The white rill sparkling winds along:
           Then, as the pausing zephyrs breathe,
           The billowy mist recedes beneath;
           Slow, as it rolls away, unfold
           The vale’s fresh glories green and gold;
           DOVE[1] laughs, and shakes his tresses bright,
           And trails afar a line of light.

             Now glows the illumin’d landscape round!
           Ye Vulgar hence!—’tis sacred ground!
           Hence to the flimsy walks of art,
           That lull, but not transport the heart.
           Nature, O Muse, here sits alone,
           And marks these regions for thy own;
           Here her variety of joys
           Nor season bounds, nor change destroys:
           Be mine the pride, tho’ weak my strains,
           That first I woo’d thee to these plains;
           Where Spring, in all her beauty drest,
           But promises a brighter guest:
           Where Summer yields her greens and flowers
           To Autumn’s variegated bowers:
           Smiles Winter, as their honours fall,
           And bids his hollies shame them all.[2]

             Ye sage Professors of design,
           Whom system’s stubborn rules confine,
           Can science here one blemish show?
           Or one deficient grace bestow?
           EMES,[3] who yon desart wild explor’d,
           And to it’s name the scene restor’d;
           Whose art is nature’s law maintain’d,
           Whose order negligence restrain’d,
           Here, fir’d by native beauty, trac’d
           The foot-steps of the Goddess, Taste:
           Won from her coy retreats she came,
           And led him up these paths to fame.

             Here ev’ry flower improves the gale
           From the meek violet of the vale
           To her, who flaunts in air sublime,
           The woodbine, queen of summer’s prime:
           While each delicious shade